Welcome, this is the PBC Morning Dawn Study Group webcast from Padmasamy Ling, the Venerable
Kemperumache's Monastery and Retreat Center in New York. Today we're discussing their
book, "The Buddhist Path, Chapter 19," which is entitled "Guru Yoga." So we'll begin with
our usual opening and lineage prayers, and then we'll go into this discussion. Thanks
so much for joining us.
"Guru Yoga, Chapter 20," which is entitled "Guru Yoga, Chapter 20," which is entitled
"I Pray at Your Lotus Feet." In the palace of the old men, Dharma Daptu, the essence of
all the bullets of the three times, the one who shows clearly the dharmakaya of my own
mind, we pray to the honor of Allward Guru, Louréis through teacher, precious one, dwelling
on the lotus seed on the crown of my head. Hold me with your great kindness and bestow
the accomplishments of body, speech, and mind.
[Music]
So Chapter 19, "Guru Yoga" begins on page 93, "The Buddha's Path," and I'll do a
summary of this chapter and then we'll go into the main point. So the Venerable
Guru Rinpoche's begin by saying, "All the teachings of the Buddha lead to Dzogchen,"
which is the pinnacle of Atriana, and that key that opens the door to Dzogchen is
"Guru Yoga." You should meditate on Guru Padmasambhava with a peaceful mind filled
with devotion and bodhicitta, and by receiving His blessings, it will help you to realize
the true nature of your own mind. This day, Guru Rinpoche completely embodies all the
three jewels and three roots, all the Buddhas and bodhisattvas, all the lineage masters,
including your own personal teachers. Doing Guru Yoga and practicing on one Buddha like
Guru Rinpoche is enough to achieve full enlightenment. All of the Buddhas we
visualize are both real Buddhas, as well as displays of our own mind. Practicing
wholeheartedly on one Buddha you feel a strong connection to will be enough for you
to achieve enlightenment. Rinpoche describes a simple yet complete way to meditate on
Guru Rinpoche. First, recite the Seven Line Prayer and then recite the Vajra Guru Mantra.
To do this, they say to do the same preparations for any sitting practice. First,
do three prostrations and sit with good posture. Do breath purification three times.
Then visualize Guru Rinpoche in the sky in front of you, as it's described in the chapter.
Guru Rinpoche is made of a wisdom rainbow light and is not made of flesh and bone.
Take refuge and arouse bodhicitta to free all beings from suffering. Then
recite the Seven Line Prayer at least three or seven times. They say this prayer is the
voice of the true nature that spontaneously arose when Guru Rinpoche was miraculously
born. The twelve syllables of the Vajra Guru Mantra balance and purify the internal
and external aspects of our existence, including the twelve links of interdependent
origination. Even one recitation of the Vajra Guru Mantra has great benefit.
Recite this mantra for as long as you have time. If you are in a hurry to see Guru Rinpoche,
recite the mantra more. You can recite 21 times, 108 times, 10 malas, 100 malas,
a million malas, a billion malas. Whatever you have time for, with the aim of
completing at least 100,000 recitations. They say the sound of the mantra is
profound meditation. When you concentrate on the sound with devotion, bodhicitta,
while recognizing the emptiness nature of yourself in all forms, sounds and awareness.
This is the union of shamatha and vipassana, or the union of creation and completion stages,
which purifies all inner and outer forms, sounds and movements of mind.
After reciting the mantra, receive the blessings from Guru Rinpoche as instructed in the book,
and sincerely believe that all the impurities of your body, speech and mind are completely
removed, and you have fully received Guru Rinpoche's blessings.
Next, Guru Rinpoche dissolves into white light, which merges into your crown chakra
and heart center, filling your body with wisdom light. Your body is no longer
solid, but is made of pure rainbow light. Your awareness is entirely and separately
merged with the wisdom mind of Guru Rinpoche and all the Buddhas. Rest in this
wisdom awareness without being distracted by thoughts for as long as you have time.
Conclude by dedicating the merit of your practice for the benefit of all sentient beings.
The first main topic is on page 93, first and second paragraphs.
All of the Buddha's teachings are like stair steps leading to Zochen,
the great perfection, which is the summit of the Vajrayana.
The key that opens the door to Zochen is the practice of Guru Yoga.
If you want to practice Zochen, you should first practice on Guru Pama Sambala,
and then you will easily understand the Zochen teachings.
When you supplicate Guru Pama Sambala with a clear and peaceful mind,
filled with devotion and bodhicitta, then its blessings and those of all the
Buddhas and bodhisattvas will help you to realize the true nature of your mind.
For people who want to do Vajrayana meditation, it is very important to practice Guru Yoga.
Guru Pama Sambala represents the three jewels and the three roots, all the objects of refuge.
When you meditate on him, you are not ignoring the other realized beings,
because he embodies all of the Buddhas of the ten directions and the three times.
In particular, he represents your personal teachers and all of the masters of the Nima and Cagulain
ages.
It is not necessary to visualize all the different Buddhas.
Doing Guru Yoga and practicing on one Buddha is enough to bring full enlightenment.
I have a question. I just thought maybe to talk a little bit about, like in the second sentence,
the key that opens the door to Zochen is the practice of Guru Yoga.
And maybe just to kind of talk about, like, how is that and why is that,
that Guru Yoga is really like the essential practice for the highest of the path, Zochen.
Anyone have any thoughts about that?
I wonder if it relates back to really feeling that closeness with the teacher,
particularly if you're fortunate, where you're able to have a connection to a teacher
and you're able to connect to that wisdom mind and recognizing how they're really the emanation
of all the beautiful qualities and all that beautiful potential, really, of this precious human
life,
but also, you know, the nature of the mind, all of those beautiful qualities,
really reflecting on that feeling, that closeness, and then, you know,
having that connection and that desire to just mirror all of those qualities,
seeing them in yourself and really connecting down to that, to that pith understanding,
you know, what else do you want, you know?
But I don't know what anyone else thinks.
I want to say I just had one thought, which is just that, like, these are lineage teachings, too,
that come from, like, thousands of years of realized beings who practice that,
engage in the teachings, and Guru Padmasabhava is a living Buddha, like we said,
in the last, like we saw in the last chapter,
a living Buddha who continuously manifests and emanates in peers and visions or in actuality,
and so, like, repertures often say that the lineage, bless me, is like the...
lineage is like a power line, and the lineage blessings the electricity that goes through the power
line,
so when you connect to that, I guess, with the proper motivation,
then you're not just making, you know, we're not just making something up,
just coming out of the blue, but it's just like a...
And then, like, what Loger was saying, too, because the...
Well, devotion is so essential, you know, like repertures always say.
Devotion is like the most profound practice, you know, as far as you connect with that,
in case your mind is really so close to the natural state.
Even if you didn't recognize the natural state, but that quality of openness and love
and appreciation and joy and gratitude and this courage and commitment is the essence of the whole
path.
Yeah, I was thinking, too, about how, you know, what Guru Yoga is, is merging with the Guru's mind.
And so that's... so the Guru is like a... a link, you know, that in terms of what that realized
mind is,
then you start to be able to kind of recognize that because you see it in your teacher,
and so then there's some connection there in terms of starting to experience it within yourself.
Yeah, it was kind of similar to what Loger was saying about the mirroring that happens,
you know, because of recognizing something, it's almost like you can't recognize something
without at least seeing a little bit in yourself, and there's this really beautiful kind of...
it's a beautiful process, I think, a little bit, a little bit kind of glimpsing, glimpsing, you
know.
It's a very profound... it is kind of speechless, in a way, it's kind of speechless.
I mean, I think Abido, I mean, just more son of a thing, comes to mind.
Like, as long as we're not realized beings, then we're holding onto things,
then we're grasping onto something, because we're in grasping mind.
So, in that case, in we're in grasping mind, then the best thing we can possibly grasp onto is an
enlightened being.
Because everything an enlightened being is going to do for us is going to be for our benefit and
everyone's benefit.
So it's, I mean, it's very clear in terms of taking refuge, like the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, and
the three roots,
and I mean, the Lama, or these great wisdom beings, like really fully embody these qualities,
like the Rummusche, of course.
And if we're going to rely on something, then that's the most direct way to manifest those
qualities ourselves,
or to see them in ourselves, at least.
So then we directly are connecting with, and I mean, this has so much to do with sincerity,
and really seeing those beautiful qualities, and also renouncing, or being larger than the small
narrow ways,
we can also be, to really renounce these more narrow ways of our mind, and all this doubt and
hesitation,
and just really kind of having full confidence to lean into the, that it's possible there are these
wisdom beings,
and we have that in ourselves too, and please come help me realize that.
And then in the end, I mean, it's, of course, that we're not relying on an external being.
I mean, that's very clear in the teachings, like emptiness from Sutra Mahayana up, I think,
that, but as long as we need to rely on things, because our mind is holding things,
then that's the best thing we can rely on, and in the end, like, that we're not needing to rely on
anything.
I mean, the Buddhas don't, because there's not anything out there, there's not anything in here.
It's just your awareness or something.
But so it's like, seems like a very direct way to do that, and it seems infallible,
in the sense of, if you're really connecting with a Buddha, an enlightened master,
that's all that they can do, is help all beings.
I mean, that's, there's nothing blocking them, their nature, from doing that.
And then to really leap over that division we have between ourselves being separate from all of
this,
from everything, there's a separation, and just to mingle, like Ann said,
to really have mind, merge with mind as best we can here for a moment.
I remember reading, well, it was one of Dilbo Kansai's books,
and I think it was "Which Fulfilling Jewel?"
I just remember it was a whole book on Guru Yoga,
and I remember I was reading it kind of early in my studies to Buddhists,
and it just, it seems so fascinating how he, particularly the way Dilbo Kansai was treating Guru
Yoga,
it wasn't, you know, just something on the cushion,
it was talking about Guru Yoga becoming this part of your daily life,
where if you're walking uphill, you're visualizing your teacher above your head,
while you're also making the aspiration,
"May I carry all sentient beings from the hell realms to liberation?"
Or if you're going downhill, "May I go to the hell realms to liberate all sentient beings?"
You know, open a door, "May I open the door to liberation?"
And viewing every part of your daily activity with the Guru Yoga,
but also tying it into the real essence of Guru Yoga,
really tapping into the aspirations, those good qualities,
really making your heart tender about all of those things.
I really thought it was really something beautiful, particularly,
because I think with all the things we've been discussing here,
I mean, of course it's not things that, it's just for the cushion,
or for the meditation, or anything like that.
Where does it make your heart tender in everything you do?
And of course with Guru Yoga, those who have practiced it enough,
of course it doesn't seem like that much of a difference,
because they get it, they understand that that blessing just carries into everything,
in that sense of, you know, it's always there, nature of mind's always there,
all these beautiful qualities are always there.
But, you know, for those of us who are still stubborn,
you know, it is good to have those little reminders to carry through the day.
I thought it was really beautiful.
Of course it was very helpful that it's such a long walk to get to the mail,
so that gives me a lot of time to practice going to the hell realms in the back.
[laughter]
I think one of the things about Guru Yoga that's really striking is that,
I mean, at least, I think we can all say this,
when we're actually in a state of mind that's actually devoted,
that's inspired, that's like so kind of, just like freshly engaged with the teachings,
like this preciousness of the opportunity, and how amazing it is that these great beings,
these teachers, that we've received these teachings,
and they help us with so many things,
and they're just relentlessly available and so compassionate,
like when we're actually in, that's even a moment of mind,
it's just so clear, like how beneficial that is to the practice,
like how it becomes real, like that impermanence becomes,
you don't want to waste time, this is so special,
or it just all becomes self-evident when that devotion is really strong in that moment.
And you can see, I mean, at least, it's just how it just all kind of clicks,
even if you're just devoted for, you know, you read some inspiring thing
and you're devoted for a minute or five minutes, it's just,
the Dharma just makes more sense, I mean, all the things that block us,
and we think we're so bad, or so lazy, or we're so great, and we don't need it,
or just all the ways we can kind of go around the point,
that in that moment of actually being devoted, that it's just really so strong,
and then here's like the practice where that's what we're trying to do all the time,
is just being this totally inspired, vulnerable, like welcoming, receptive state
to the blessings and to our own, like, nature being there.
So while I think there's a lot of technical things we can say about it too,
I think it's also like really obvious if we're just in,
like when we're in that devoted awareness, it's just, it works,
like the practice is not a burden, it's like, I want to do this so much, you know,
until we get all caught in something, and then whatever,
we get caught and we need to do practice again.
Yeah, and when you think of everything that we've gone through in samsara,
even just in this lifetime, you know, and how much benefit have we gotten
from normal mundane activities, and how have we come out of suffering
and realized that our nature is enlightened? Not that much.
Maybe, I mean, you know, it's like not too much, but when you need a teacher,
like, that really embodies, that is the dharma, you know,
like Absolute Guru Pama Samhava, they embody that quality,
and you actually make a connection, if you think about it,
in the whole vastness of all our lifetimes, and even in this one,
finally we're connecting with someone who embodies, who really gets it,
you know, and is totally dedicated to benefiting others.
That's the only thing they want to do, because that's their whole, you know,
fully actualized their nature, and you see them just selflessly, you know,
like day in and day out, like totally benefiting beings,
and that's their greatest wish and intention, and like you make a connection
with somebody who is the teachings, and they are Pama Samhava, you know,
from, on the absolute level, they are, they totally recognize that nature,
and they're just, what they most want is for you to recognize that.
Your mind, their mind are the same, and Pama, Guru Pama Samhava's mind is the same.
It's just like a total beacon of light that just cuts through everything,
you know, of the whole darkness of all these struggles
of trying to make things work that are never going to work, you know,
and trying to like, I mean, not to, it's just like, it's a total, like,
you want to lottery, you know.
If you make contact with a qualified teacher, and come in contact with the teachings,
the teachings always say, it's like going to the island of wish-fulfilling jewels,
and you have everything that you've ever wanted right in your hand, you know.
They say, if you don't achieve enlightenment based on that, you know,
then what sense does that make it all, you know?
It's just beautiful, you know, when you think about it.
It's like you totally, your samsara is ending for you.
When you meet a qualified teacher, when you hear the teaching,
you hear the dharma that they embody,
and they're passed on this line of wisdom, realization, you know.
It's literally like, for you, samsara is like, at the very end, you know.
I mean, we should see it that way, you know.
I mean, if we do approach it that way, then it's like,
there's nothing standing in our way, because all the obstacles are totally dispelled
by connecting with that teacher, like through guru yoga, you said, too.
And even if your life is cut short, and even if you die tomorrow, you know,
then who cares, you know.
If you are in that, if you are doing that, you know,
you're connecting with that, and your life is meaningful, you know.
You're making it meaningful in that moment.
Then what more could you do, you know?
I think it's also beautiful, too, especially in Vashriyana,
that, I mean, it was just that, the possibility of achieving enlightenment
in a single lifetime.
And if we think about how much karma we have that has to be purified
in order for that to be possible, that there's definitely going to be
a lot of karma that's going to come up in that lifetime,
that's going to have to be worked with or dealt with
in a way where we don't continue that karma.
So here we have a method that, like, can just blaze through
or just really go through all these turbulent things
that have to come up in order to become enlightened in a single lifetime.
I mean, in order to do it in any kind of a short time,
there's just these obstacles, hindrances, crises, imbalances,
like, all those karma things.
Here we have a method, like, the way of most directly going to
how we can best deal with all those situations, even the good times.
Like, it is to recognize our nature that these things are just
movements of our nature and to stay grounded in that.
And then, hiragiri-yoga, that's what it's all about.
So it becomes the essence of all of these practices,
of all the other nundra practices.
And, like, they all really begin with that,
like, seeing that, recognizing that nature.
And so it's kind of powerful, it's indirect.
So I'll go to the next, we'll do the next summary in the next question.
Kamurumache is continued by saying,
"There are many ways to meditate and they all require concentration.
In this practice, you can concentrate on each syllable circling clockwise,
which will transform your ordinary speech into Vajra speech.
You also need to apply mindfulness,
which means you're aware of what your mind is doing.
In Vajrayana practice, it's very important to establish
and grow a personal connection with your lama
in Guru Padmasambhava.
Gurumache will help you realize the nature of your mind
and your lama exemplifies the realization gained by the practice.
When you connect with your teacher,
you have an auspicious situation,
similar to that of being directly receiving teachings from Gurumache.
That's one of his disciples.
This comes from page 96, the last two paragraphs.
There are many ways to meditate, but no matter which technique you use,
you need to apply concentration.
This involves keeping the mind on the object of focus.
Also, during meditation, you need to apply mindfulness
to watch what your mind is doing as a support for your concentration.
This is the basic instruction for beginning your daily practice.
When you do Vajrayana practice,
it is very important to establish the personal connection with the lama
and with Guru Padmasambhava.
By connecting with Guru Padmasambhava,
you receive his assistance in understanding the true nature of the mind.
Doing Guru Yoga practice also brings a very close connection
to your personal teacher,
who exemplifies the realization gained by the practice.
When you connect with a personal teacher,
you have an auspicious situation,
similar to that of Guru Padmasambhava's 25 disciples,
all of whom became enlightened by following the instructions of the teacher.
What do you think, Live?
I mean, the first part in this section is kind of talking about what Anne brought up too,
just as far as that link of the way our concentration gives in a way for our focus
and our devotion.
I'm not sure what my thoughts are about that, besides just it's a big one.
Sorry, as you were reading, I did have a thought.
If someone else has something, I'll bring it up.
Okay, how does this Guru Yoga...
Buddhism is a non-theistic tradition,
and there's a lot of theistic traditions.
So how is this Guru Yoga not a theistic supplication to someone greater than you
or more powerful or something?
And you're asking for the thing...
What's the difference there between Guru Yoga?
How can we have Guru Yoga and still be non-theistic?
Because from an outsider's perspective, it may look just like you're saying from it.
It may look theistic.
It may look like we're praying to this external deity.
So what are we doing or how is it different?
We're trying to recognize the nature of our own mind.
We're trying to benefit all beings.
We're trying to...
We're also hopefully applying the instructions and the meditation on,
like you mentioned earlier, emptiness
and the great openness that fundamentally, like even in the instructions,
Guru Rinpoche is not... is a light body.
There's nothing to grasp. It's not ordinary.
And then further in the instructions usually...
We might be in our ordinary form too, but a lot of the instructions are also recognizing
everything is kind of in that state, like a rainbow in the sky.
So kind of that fundamental, really important point that there isn't
a substantially existing someone.
We're trying to come to a fuller understanding of that.
And then with these blessings, like the nature of our mind, like it says too,
it is inconceivable. It's beyond grasping.
And then just how the Guru embodies that realization
is an appearance to our mind
of the expressive quality of that realization
to turn our own minds and all beings towards realizing their true nature
and that inconceivable nature and inconceivable kind of realization.
I think that's a lot of what's by that point of devotion
and opening our mind and heart.
There's like no formula we could really write out
that describes how blessings work or what blessings are.
Just in that sense of like, it's inconceivable.
What we're opening to is inconceivable beyond any map we can make.
But we have these kind of guidelines and a really structured, reliable
set of lineage instructions that help according to our capacities
to connect and focus our mind.
But in that direction, asher am I, it's like that.
That's great.
I would focus in terms of what Lai was saying in particular
about how recognition that Guruji is empty and that we're empty
and all the foundational teachings that we have as a basis
for this of knowing that we're going beyond
perceiver and perceived, that kind of dualistic mind
that we're not thinking that he's really some legal guy up there.
So it really is different in terms of the internal understanding.
Is he, in one way to put it, is he like an image of our nuxim,
original mind or fundamental mind? Would you say that?
Or is blessings coming from ourselves from that non-conceptual place
of ourselves or what? That's just a thought. I don't know.
Yeah, that's a good question.
I mean, in here they say both, even in this chapter.
And that's kind of what I was getting at too at that point.
I mean, it just seems to do that inconceivable thing.
I mean, yes, there's things we can say that maybe are true.
But like that, it's like, yes, yes.
But in terms of specifically what we're saying,
where are the blessings coming from?
Are they really... is that what you were saying?
Yeah, I was thinking...
Is it really coming from the nature of our mind?
Are we really kind of blessing ourselves?
Yeah, that's just a theory.
They mentioned in this chapter that where are the Buddhas?
There are actual Buddhas that do actually exist in the universe,
like Guru Padmasambhava, but also it's a display.